---
layout: post
title:  "Sprint 1 Week 1"
date:   2019-05-07 02:05:15 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---

Week 1
	Introduction

I just recently became a certified scrum master and decided that the best application for my training is to use it with my kids at home! I have two boys a seven year old second grader and a five year old pre-kindergartener. It was becoming a struggle to get the boys ready for school on time and for them to remember everything they needed done. I decided that scrum would not only take advantage of what I had learned but also help the boys to take responsibility for getting themselves ready to go in the morning.

The Important Players: My husband is the product owner and a development team member. I am the scrum master and our boys are the development team.

The First Sprint:
We began the Sprint Planning meeting on a Saturday when we would have enough time to discuss with the boys what Scrum is and how it would help the family as a whole. The boys were very excited about it and took ownership of talking about what they could do to get the work done that was decided by the Product Owner. As the scrum master I had decided that the boys would be very excited to complete the work if they would get a chance to play a game of their choice as a family and individual games on the ipad. The work that was decided on was composed of a few different things. 

1. One type of work was the things the boys were responsible for every morning. These were things like getting dressed, brushing teeth and getting ready for school.  

2.Another type of work were things that the Product Owner just wanted the boys to do for their own development (extra homework, reading etc.).  

3. The last type of work was things that the boys had not really been responsible for (except when guests would come over) but the product owner wanted them to start learning to do on a regular basis. This included cleaning up their toys and messes so that the living space would look nice.

We also decided that one day a week (Sunday) the boys would not need to do anything (except for getting themselves ready) and would only need to be responsible for getting one thing done that would help the family as a whole. After the big Saturday meeting it had been decided that on Sunday we would immediately start the process with a daily standup meeting at 7:30 pm. 
     That first morning the boys were super excited about moving the stickers and getting things done. We easily saved 15 minutes using this method to get the boys ready to go in the morning. However, by that evening the youngest already wanted to drop out of the scrum team. A few days later the oldest who is seven also wanted to quit scrum. The main reason I discovered was because they were unhappy with being responsible for things they had never had to do much before (i.e. cleaning up their toys). They were still using scrum to help get stuff done in the morning but after a few days they stopped moving the stickers. However, they were still getting ready to go at a faster pace (even without the stickers). It helped the five year old become aware of what he needed to do for himself in the morning and the benefits continue to this day. I think this is because their responsibilities for getting ready were clearly set up for them. It was good for the younger son to see what he needed to do and what his responsibilities in the morning would be. By this time since both boys were unhappy with the scrum team I got together with them to discuss why they did not want to be members of the team. It turns out that they wanted to have more frequent immediate rewards rather than just one big reward and a few small ones. I got them excited about scrum by promising to play a game with them that day. They also started to like doing some of the homework items that were expected of them. In order to make the whole team happy we decided to start cleaning the toys up as a family. This was also to show the boys that I am a “servant” leader.  It was still a bit hard to motivate the boys but we did break up the cleaning with games of hide-and-go seek which the boys really like. My younger son was also excited about picking up toys in a new Paw Patrol flying toy and then dumping it in the toy containers. Next time, I am going to give the boys a task of cleaning up the toys with a dump truck or another type of toy to help dump the toys into their containers.  

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
